---
layout: post
title: "Harmless Pain?!"
author: Waylan Limberg
categories: "waylan"
summary: "In a recent <a href=\"http://www.dilbert.com/comics/dilbert/dilbert_newsletter/dilbert_newsletter56.html\">Dilbert Newsletter</a> one of the quotes submitted from \"Induhviduals\" (that's really how they spell it) was something I've said for years.   <blockquote>\"A little pain never hurt anyone.\"</blockquote> "
---

In a recent <a href="http://www.dilbert.com/comics/dilbert/dilbert_newsletter/dilbert_newsletter56.html">Dilbert Newsletter</a> one of the quotes submitted from "Induhviduals" (that's really how they spell it) was something I've said for years. 

<blockquote>"A little pain never hurt anyone."</blockquote> 

Now, while I understand why the phrase was included in the list, that's what makes it so meaningful. It's meant to be ironic. In any event, that got me thinking about why I use that expression and often seem to live my life by it.

First of all, I'd like to mention that I am not bringing this up to receive anyone&#8217;s pity or charity. Rather I only include the following story as background information so that you, my reader, may better understand my perspective and where it comes from. I should also say that I have absolutely no support for my conclusions other than my own not-so-objective observations of life. That said, I was born some 2 years and a few months shy of 3 decades ago with clubfeet. Suffice it to say, I would not be able to walk today, had it not been for modern medicine and some corrective surgery. Even then, I'm told that an experienced podiatrist would not be able to recognize an x-ray of either of my feet without my toes in the picture. My ankle movement is slim to non and any extensive use of my feet generates excessive amounts of pain for the next three to four days. The fact is, the pain is always present in my feet, never really going away.

With many years of practice, I am very good at blocking out that pain. So good, that I have to center all my concentration on my feet to even notice all but the most extreme pain. This same high tolerance has carried itself over to other area&#8217;s of my body as well. All the scars from (unintentionally) self-induced burns, cuts scraps, etc. are a testament to that. The time I stuck a chisel in my thumb comes to mind. I didn&#8217;t even realize I cut myself until I noticed the tool was stuck in the end of my thumb. I carefully pulled it out and went back to work only to find a large puddle of blood a few seconds later. Or, how about the time I was sitting on top of the folded up bleachers during gym class and a soccer ball was power kicked from no more than 10 yards away, smashing my head into the concrete wall behind me. Not more than two minutes later, &#8216;subs&#8217; were called in and I was running around with everyone else, never giving the pounding in my head a second thought. It&#8217;s not that pain doesn&#8217;t effect me. It does. Just not the same way as most people (apparently). I even have a reputation among close friends and family members for blacking out &#8211; not from the pain, but from the crash after the adrenaline rush.

So, what&#8217;s the point of all this? All this pain has helped me build character. When faced with difficulty, I just grit my teeth and trudge forward through the storm. I have an immense respect for other&#8217;s who do the same. Sure, if it was in my power to remove their burden, I would in a heartbeat. Unfortunately, that&#8217;s rarely the case. So yeah, &#8220;a little pain never hurt anyone.&#8221; It only equips us for the bigger challenges ahead.  I&#8217;ve said it many times before and I&#8217;m sure I&#8217;ll say it again.