---
layout: post
title: "I'm Back!"
author: Waylan Limberg
categories: "achinghead.com"
summary: "Where I've been and why my site was missing the last week and a half."
---

Finally, after being off line for a little more than a week, the site is back online. I was in the middle of changing hosts when I realized that my domain name was about to expire. I wanted to transfer it so that all my domains would be managed under one registrar so I did the transfer just in time. It went through the day it was to expire. Talk about cutting it close. In any event, as I didn't renew with my previous host, and wasn't prepared to have things up and running on my new host, I was without content for a week and a half.

Why so long? I had initially intended to start with a fresh new redesign on my new host. Just import the content from the database and start with whole new site using the handy new template system built into Wordpress. But things haven't gone as planned. At least not in connection with this here site. In my non-online life however, things are going great. And that is part of the <del datetime="2005-06-16T20:15:11+00:00">problem</del> <ins datetime="2005-06-16T20:15:11+00:00">delay</ins>. You see, the middle of last month (quit literally - May 15) I got married to my lovely wife Kori. As such, I haven't had much time to play here, which explains the default theme for Wordpress.

Not to worry, once I have the new design complete, I'll post it here in all it's glory along with a few fancy tricks made available from some handy plugins. Until then, at least you get all my old content.