---
layout: post
title: "            Performancing Firefox Plugin"
author: Waylan Limberg
categories: "miscellaneous "
summary: "            This is just a test post really. I wanted to try the <a href=\"http://performancing.com/firefox\">Performancing for Firefox<br /></a> plugin and see how it works. "
---

            This is just a test post really. I wanted to try the <a href="http://performancing.com/firefox">Performancing for Firefox<br /></a> plugin and see how it works. According to the site:<br /><br /><blockquote>Performancing for Firefox is a full featured blog editor that sits right within Firefox.<br /></blockquote><br />I seem to be having a little trouble getting the markup to work with the GUI editor. For instance, after creating the above link, I wanted to continue typing, but the new text was added to the link text. I had to go into the source view and edit it manually. The same happened with the blockquote. I suppose I could just <br />type the entire post, then go back and add in the formatting, but I like to do it while typing that particular content. Otherwise, I'll forget about some formatting I had initially intended.<br /><br />It's never been clear to my why I need this type a product when the blog application gives me the same functionality, but others seem to swear by it. Although, I suppose if one had multiple blogs all on differing systems, having one consistant interface in place would be a big help. And then there are those blog packages that don't provide their own interface, expecting people to use a client. Who knows, maybe having a readily available client will inspire me to post more. We'll have to wait and see.<br /><br /><h3>Update:</h3> I see there are a few formatting issues above. I have elected to leave them to highlight the problems with the product. Under any other situation, I would make the corrections. I should note that the problem seems to be with line breaks that I did not type. That is where the line wrapped in the editing window. It seems that something got confused somewhere about the difference between line wrapping and line breaks.<br /><br /><h3>Update Again:</h3>One other thing I should have mentioned is there is no way to check spelling. Seeing that my spelling skills are slim to non, this is a problem for me. When using the HTML form in my browser, I just use Firefox's <a href="http://spellbound.sourceforge.net/">Spellbound</a> extension. This doesn't appear to be available within Performancing.