---
layout: post
title: "no brakes?!"
author: Waylan Limberg
categories: "bicycles, mountain-biking"
summary: "Where have I been, you ask? Busy, <strong>very busy</strong>. Hopefully things will begin to slow down. I finally found the time last week to order the parts for my bike (new rings). They came in today and I got them installed only to discover that I had leaked brake fluid. D'oh! Seeing as I had the time (a real commodity these days) I went for a short ride around the pond out back anyway. It's been real wet this year and the mud was a real challenge, but it felt good to ride, even if it was only for a few short minutes with no downhill sections."
---

Where have I been, you ask? Busy, <strong>very busy</strong>. Hopefully things will begin to slow down. I finally found the time last week to order the parts for my bike (new rings). They came in today and I got them installed only to discover that I had leaked brake fluid. D'oh! Seeing as I had the time (a real commodity these days) I went for a short ride around the pond out back anyway. It's been real wet this year and the mud was a real challenge, but it felt good to ride, even if it was only for a few short minutes with no downhill sections.
  
Being so busy, I haven't really have time to post much as the one or two of you may have noticed. However, that doesn't mean I have a lack of things to post about. So here's a teaser. I recently acquired a PDA (look for the coming review) and have been briefly jotting down my thoughts and ideas on it when I can. The list is getting quite long, so more should be coming soon, time permitting. I also have some good (better?) ideas for this here weblog that I hope to institute soon, including upgrading to the newest version of <a href='http://wordpress.org/' title="Wordpress.org">Wordpress</a>. To top it all off I am in the early planning stages of my very first computer case modd and hope to build a custom bike with a little help from my brother. We'll have to wait and see if either of those projects pan out. Needless to say, I have plenty to talk about, but just seem to lack the time to do it. 

Untill next time, happy braking. :D