---
layout: post
title: "testing wordpress"
author: Waylan Limberg
categories: "achinghead.com"
summary: "I finally had the time last night to install <a href='http://wordpress.org/' title=\"A state&#45;of&#45;the&#45;art semantic personal publishing platform with a focus on aesthetics, web standards, and usability.\">wordpress</a> on my localhost (which I finally found time to reinstall last weekend) to see how I like it. Wow, that was just too easy. That is, once I figured out how to install it. I understand that it is a fairly new project and more time is spent developing than writing documentation, but why couldn't they post the read me file included in the package on their web site. I would have found it there and read it before installing by trial and error. As it turns out, I did things right and everything seems to work (although I wasted some valuable time)."
---

I finally had the time last night to install <a href='http://wordpress.org/' title="A state&#45;of&#45;the&#45;art semantic personal publishing platform with a focus on aesthetics, web standards, and usability.">wordpress</a> on my localhost (which I finally found time to reinstall last weekend) to see how I like it. Wow, that was just too easy. That is, once I figured out how to install it. I understand that it is a fairly new project and more time is spent developing than writing documentation, but why couldn't they post the read me file included in the package on their web site. I would have found it there and read it before installing by trial and error. As it turns out, I did things right and everything seems to work (although I wasted some valuable time).

Considering all the work I did on my previous site (lost from my neglect to back it up &#45; Doh&#33;) and all I had was half of an oversimplified CMS, it just seems wrong that all I had to do was download and unzip a file, add my database setting to the config file, then run the install script. It all seems to work better than anything I would have the time to develop and even outputs standards compliant code.

I still need to figure out how the templating works and a few other little details before I create my custom template that, at least for the most part, matches the source of this page. I really like their little Press It bookmarklet which lets you automatically create a new post linking to the site you are currently visiting. However, I imagine I would mostly want to use this for my &#39;of interest&#39; section (basicly a blog roll) where I only have one liner comments in the title. I have considered reformatting that section to have my comments appear below each link. If I can set up a secondary weblog in wordpress and have it displayed on the same page as my primary weblog (<a href='http://wordpress.org/about/features/' title="features"> it looks like I can</a>), then that would be great. If not, I guess I&#39;ll have to write my own script for that. Maybe I should anyway just so I can truthfully say, &#39;yeah I built that&#39;.