---
layout: post
title: "Redesign v3"
author: Waylan Limberg
categories: "achinghead.com"
summary: "I finally have that redesign (mostly) working that I've been hinting at lately."
---

Finally, after much delay, I have this site working the way I want. Well, for the most part. There are a few holes here and there, but nothing like before. I have found a couple things wrong because I hacked the original WP/plugin files on my test machine and didn't note which ones they were. Now I'll have to go back through the code and figure it out. Until then, you may find a few problems. 

If you have visited in the last few days, (do I even have any regular visitors?) you would have noticed that there were some changes. Particularly, the source code is much cleaner (IMO) and the pages were unstyled. The unstyled thing was from a stupid error on my part. I got all thrown off by the mod_rewrite rules when referring to the CSS file. D'oh! At least that's fixed. Speaking of mod_rewrite rules, now that I am using them (I think I finally am starting to understand how they work) I need to go back through and change any internal links I have made in the past. As the o0ld install is still there, in it's old directory, that could cause some confusion.

Although you probably would be non-the-wiser (unless I told you) I also have <a href='http://shortstat.shauninman.com/' title="ShortStat  at ShaunInman.com">ShortStat</a> running so I'll actually know if I have any visitors without scratching my head over cryptic log files.

Maybe someday, after I plug the holes and get everything the way I want it, I'll find the time to explain how I have everything set up. (This is a very non-standard WP install). Until then, time is becoming more difficult to find as I have recently added a little more complexity to my life, which, in this case, is not necessarily a bad thing.

Please, feel free to comment on the redesign and point out any holes I may have missed.